Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
sci-fi thriller film called "The Colony."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Global warming pushed the climate to the
extremes, causing harsh icy winds and snow
to cover the world. The remaining humans survive
in underground bunkers that shield them from the
rigid environment above. In one of the bunkers,
two people speed through the tunnels, chased
by an unseen threat. They reach the door at the
end, begging to be let in as danger approaches.
Sam, a resident of Colony 7, repairs the
weather machines when he witnesses the soldiers
drag an old, sick man named Hal outside. Hal's
disease is getting worse, and the colony can no
longer afford to waste resources on him and risk
an outbreak. Even the simple common cold threatens
the colony, with the last flu outbreak taking
the lives of twenty people in less than a week.
To prevent this, the colony puts anyone showing
symptoms into quarantine. If their conditions
don't improve, they can choose to leave the colony
or take a bullet. Hal chooses to take his chances
on the outside world, but one of the soldiers,
Mason, can't take the risk of Hal returning.
Sam's bargains for Hal's life fall on
deaf ears, and Hal is shot on the back.
When Sam first arrived at Colony 7, hundreds
of residents worked together to maintain life
underground. They survive the great famine
brought by climate change. Despite the years
of snow-covered lands, there are still some who
believe paradise exists somewhere above ground.
But other than the cold that freezes the planet,
other humans also threaten the survivors.
Thinking that Mason may also be a threat,
Sam raises his concern to the colony leader,
Briggs. The news that Mason refused to allow
Hal the choice to be exiled worries Briggs,
but more pressing matters must be tended to first.
Communications officer Cooper lost contact with
Colony 5 after receiving an S.O.S. from them.
Briggs calls in for a general assembly to
discuss the matter and directs Sam to assist the
livestock. Before the assembly, Briggs confronts
Mason on his refusal to honor Hal's choice. But
Mason insists on preventing the risk of the sick
returning to the colony and endangering the rest.
In the livestock section, Viktor explains
that their only female rabbit only gives birth
to stillborns, possibly due to
lack of protein. To address this,
Sam asks for soy pellets from his girlfriend,
Kai. As she's gathering the supplies,
Sam notices her laptop showing satellite
footage from Spain. Kai monitors any
satellite feed she can detect, believing
that someone is still fixing the climate.
At the main hall where the residents gather
for the assembly, Dex reminds his wife, Elena,
not to cough. Sam notices their anxious faces
and suggests for them to return to their rooms.
But it's too late; Briggs arrives to start the
meeting. He announces losing communication with
Colony 5 after receiving the distress signal.
Briggs intends to investigate, but Mason argues
that they don't have the resources to spare.
Briggs, however, is adamant in honoring their
pact with Colony 5. He calls on Dex to join
his mission, but Sam volunteers, sparing him
from leaving his wife. Viktor's son, Graydon,
also volunteers despite his parents' concerns.
Kai is put in charge of the colony
in Briggs' absence, angering Mason.
The assembly is interrupted when Elena
sneezes and coughs. Fearing the flu,
the rest of the people evacuate the hall, and
Dex and Elena are quarantined. Mason argues
about quarantine protocols and Kai's authority,
but Briggs reminds him who the colony leader is.
That evening, Sam wakes up to a nightmare where
he finds his mother frozen to death in the storm.
Years after his mother's death, he
still feels guilty over her demise.
The next day, as the team makes their way to
Colony 5, Sam remembers the start of climate
change. The planet grew hotter at first, and
the world built weather modification towers
to curb climate change. One day, it started to
snow everywhere and hasn't stopped for years.
Garbed in thick coats and gear, the
three men navigate in the icy wasteland,
passing by the ghost of a city that once
buzzed with life. They reach a weather tower,
covered in snow and icicles, presumably never
to run again. The three battle their way against
the harsh environment for hours, hindered by
a broken bridge that groans against the wind.
They carefully navigate around holes in the
concrete and find themselves on a narrow path
that's on the brink of collapsing. At the end of
the bridge, they spot a dead man leaning against
an army truck. Briggs picks up a gun from
the man's hand and checks inside the truck,
finding the man's wife and daughter with bullet
holes on their foreheads. The team presses on.
Walking over thick snow that buries old cities,
they reach an abandoned helicopter and take
shelter inside. Briggs radios back to Colony 7,
where Cooper reports Dex and Elena's worsened
conditions. Knowing Mason's brashness,
Briggs gives Cooper authority to use
force should he step out of line.
While they're resting, Briggs brings up how close
they are to where Sam was rescued. Before reaching
Colony 7, Sam and his family took shelter in
an old mine with other families. Eventually,
their supplies ran out, leaving them to feed on
the horses and dogs. Sam's father brought a team
out to search for help, but they never returned.
Seeing no hope, Sam took his mother and sister out
of the mine, but the storm separated him from
them. It was the last time he saw his family.
The next day, the team arrives at Colony 5,
seeing it barren with a trail of blood next to
a gaping hole on the smokestack. They climb down
the bunker and see more blood on the floor and no
people in sight. Sensing danger, they arm
themselves with guns before moving forward.
The bunker is damp and dark, only their
footsteps and dripping water echoing inside.
Briggs sees a dead body covered in a bag in one of
the rooms; blood smeared all over the wall inside.
With no signs of life, Graydon fears that everyone
in the colony is dead. His thoughts are disproved
quickly when they hear knocking from afar. More
bloodstains mark the walls as they reach the
battered door where the sound came from. After Sam
picks the lock, Briggs cautiously opens the door,
gun in hand. Inside is a man on the floor, covered
in a blanket. Blinded by the lights they carry,
the man panics and waves a metal rod to drive
them away. Outnumbered, he holds up his hand in
surrender, begging for his life. As he realizes
that they're not the ones he fears, the man warns
them to lock the doors. The man, Leland, eats
and drinks Sam's supplies as he tells his story.
After fixing a new antenna, Colony 5 reached
transmission farther than they had before.
One transmission shows a man who claims to
have modified a weather tower and successfully
thawed an area stretching to a three-mile
radius. Before the man shares his location,
the transmission cuts off. Colony 5 sent a
team to locate the source, but they failed.
Instead, another group found their team
and followed them back to the colony.
Leland fears whoever is out there, choosing
to be imprisoned in the room than to take
his chances outside. Sam assures him that
no one else is in the bunker, and they only
found him due to his knocking. But Leland
didn't do it. Someone else is in the bunker.
Confident that they can return home, Briggs
orders his team to prepare to leave. Graydon
calls Colony 7 for updates while Sam and Briggs
search the room for resources. Leland continues to
weep in the dark, frightened of what lies ahead.
After several attempts, Graydon's radio fails to
contact Colony 7 as they're too far underground
to reach a signal. Before they leave, voices roar
from afar. More sounds of activity echo in the
bunker. Briggs' team leaves the room, but Leland
pushes Graydon out and locks himself back inside.
With no choice, they abandon Leland and move on.
Carefully, the team follows the sounds of choked
screams and thumps. They hear the sound of metal
chains, discovering a room filled with severed
human limbs carved out by the cannibal group that
infiltrated Colony 5. Among the bloody carcass,
a hand moves, its owner clinging to life in the
mess. The butcher stops and notices the team.
He aims to attack until Sam shoots him down.
The gunshot alerts the other cannibals,
who awaken and chase after the team.
Briggs lights a stick of dynamite and
blows up the group chasing after them.
Having run ahead of them, Graydon is
separated from the two and gets ambushed.
The cannibals stab him repeatedly
before Sam and Briggs come to his aid.
Sam shoots the men down but is tackled by
another, who pins him down. Briggs fights
off another cannibal with an ice ax and pulls off
the man trapping Sam. He swings his ice ax at them
until all their assailants are dead. The two check
on Graydon, but he has succumbed to his wounds.
Hearing a war cry from afar, Briggs and Sam run
back to the smokestack where they climbed in from.
Sam shoots at the cannibals, but he runs out
of bullets. While Sam climbs up the ladder,
Briggs breaks down the lower ladder to
prevent their pursuers from coming after them.
He gets attacked by another man and gets
beaten before he could reach his gun and shoot.
The rest of the cannibals find Briggs staring up
at him in a fury. The leader lets out an
angered roar as he watches them escape.
Reaching the ground above, Briggs lights
dynamite and throws it back inside the bunker.
The smokestack explodes and collapses in itself.
Believing the cannibals are trapped underground,
Briggs and Sam make their way back home.
The two take shelter back in the helicopter,
where they discuss the recent events.
Before global warming, Briggs was an Army captain
on a relief effort. He witnessed how people go
feral out of desperation, akin to how the people
who destroyed Colony 5 turned to cannibalism.
Twenty thousand people gathered in the stadium to
receive food and medicine from the relief effort.
But when supplies ran out, armed people stole
the supplies from those who couldn't defend
themselves. When the supplies were still not
enough, the armed people gathered others for
execution, trimming down the population
enough to feed those left alive. Briggs'
squad attempted to stop the chaos, but they
were powerless. Hoping for a better future,
Briggs and Sam agree to search for the
location where the land has been thawed.
In the morning, Sam spots the cannibal group
that followed their footprints. Upon reaching the
bridge, Briggs and Sam jump over the massive hole
in the middle, shaking the bridge momentarily.
With the cannibals near, Briggs lights a stick
of dynamite, but the wind blows out the fuse.
Sam stops Briggs from going back to it, but
he knocks Sam down, fighting to start a fire
as the cannibals get near. He finally lights the
dynamite but doesn't throw it. Instead, he battles
with the cannibals until the dynamite triggers in
his hand, blowing up the bridge between Sam and
the surviving cannibals. With the bridge broken,
the leader snarls at Sam as he gets up and leaves.
Now alone, Sam heads back to Colony 7. Freezing,
distraught, and exhausted, he finally reaches the
colony where Mason executes Elena in front of Dex
without testing her for the disease first. Kai
emerges, raising her gun at Mason. Tired of the
flawed protocols, Mason declares his intentions
on changing things for their survival. Their
confrontation ends when they hear Sam's call for
help. The distraction allows Dex to escape. Kai
runs to Sam but is knocked unconscious by Mason.
Later that day, Sam wakes up surrounded by the
colony. Viktor asks for his son and weeps when
Sam confirms that Graydon and Briggs are
dead. Mason arrives, cuffing Sam to the
bed. He declares his rules, cutting everyone's
rations in half and imposing tests on anyone who
shows sickness symptoms. Sam warns them about the
cannibals who slaughtered everyone in Colony 5.
He asks Mason to evacuate everyone to the thawed
land, assuring them that he knows the location.
But Mason doesn't believe him. When the
rest is gone, a little boy named Rowan
gives Sam the stolen key to his handcuffs.
Outside, Viktor and Mason check for signs of
the cannibals. They check the surveillance
monitors but don't find anything. A man reports
Sam's escape, and Mason heads off to find him.
After getting free, Sam rescues Kai and shows
her the thawed land from the satellite images
on her computer. Confirming the land's
location, Sam gathers their supply of seeds
and rushes to get as many people as they can to
evacuate the colony. Mason blocks their path,
asserting his authority over them. Loud thumps
overhead alarm the group, ending the argument.
They rush back to the surveillance monitors
and see the cannibals prying open their doors.
The leader presents Dex's severed head
to the camera before breaking the device.
Realizing that Sam had been telling
the truth, Mason orders everyone to
arm themselves while the rest who can't
fight are secured in the vault. Cooper
assists the women and children to the vault,
prepared to fight if the cannibals reach them.
At the entrance, the non-disabled survivors
prepare for battle. The lights start to flicker
as the cannibals find other ways to infiltrate
the bunker. Cooper fights off a cannibal from
the vault but is overpowered. The women lock the
vault, preventing the attacker from reaching them.
Another cannibal corners a woman at their church.
Her screams echo all around, alarming the others.
The cannibals enter from the vents, stabbing
Mason in the stomach. As more cannibals arrive,
the injured Mason flees with fear in his eyes. Kai
and Sam back away as they get outnumbered. Viktor
stays, refusing to back down from the people who
killed his son. After a valiant battle, Viktor is
sliced across the stomach, defeated by the leader.
Mason reaches the main hall and immediately
barricades the door, preventing Sam and Kai
from entering. A woman knocks Mason out and
opens the door just as a cannibal tackles Sam. Kai
shoots the cannibal on the back, saving him. More
cannibals rush to the door, but Mason barricades
it again before they could reach them. With the
cannibals breaking the door, Sam pries the vents
open to escape to the surface. Mason refuses to
go, believing that they could still fight the
cannibals. The rest of the survivors follow
Sam instead, leaving Mason to fight by himself.
Before he leaves, Sam tosses his gun to Mason,
who aims it back at him. Sam reminds him that he'd
need all the bullets to fight before disappearing
into the vent. With no one on his side, Mason
faces the cannibals. As his final action, Mason
shoots a nearby gas tank, filling the main hall
with flames that burn him and the cannibals alive.
The cannibal leader jumps into the vent before
the flames erupt, allowing him to chase after Sam.
Inside the cramped vent, Sam dives forward,
blocking the cannibal leader from the rest.
The leader throws Sam to the side, causing the
vent to break open, spilling them into the burning
livestock room. Sam uses numerous cages to fend
off the man, but he is grabbed and thrown down.
Weakened, Sam is knocked to the ground, then on a
table where the leader slams his fist against his
chest. Baring his sharpened teeth, the leader
tells Sam he wants more. Sam finds a broken
metal sheet as he's dragged down and drives it
into the man's leg. With him down, Sam grabs a
pipe and releases all his anger and fear on the
cannibal's head, feeling the fury take him over.
Seeing the man unmoving, Sam turns his back but
is grabbed on the leg. Sam drives a blade into the
cannibal's mouth, pushing down until he breaks
his head in half, finally ending the battle.
Outside, the remaining survivor
watches their home enveloped in smoke.
Sam finally joins them, seeing the confusion
and misery in the others' faces. Sam leads
the survivors to the thawed area with his purpose
set, carrying the seeds to start their paradise.